this lecture is about the parody of
America relation discovery in this
lecture we're going to talk about how to
discover a particular kind of word
associations called a parody grammatical
relations by definition two words are
parody parody grammatically related if
they share similar context namely they
occur in similar positions in text so
naturally our idea for discovering such
a relation is to look at the context of
each word and then try to compute the
similarity of those contexts so here's
example of context of a word kept here I
have taken the word kept out of the
context and you can see we are seeing
some remaining words in the sentences
that contain cat now we can do the same
thing for another word like a dog so in
general we would like to capture such a
context and then try to assess the
similarity of the context of a cat and
the context of a word like a dog so now
the question is how can we formally
represent the context and then define
the similarity function so first we note
that the context actually contains a lot
of words so they can be regarded as a
pseudo document I imagine a document but
there are also different ways of looking
at the context for example we can look
at the word that occurs before the word
cat we can call it we can call this
context left one context right so in
this case you will see words like my
he's a big aide etc these are the words
that can occur to the left of the word
cat so we say my cat his cat big cat a
cat etc
similarly we can also collect the words
that occur right after the worldcat we
encode s context write one and here we
see words like eats eight is has etc or
more generally we can look at the all
the words in the window of text around
the word cat here let's say we can take
a window of eight words around the word
cat we call this context window eight
now of course you can see all the words
from left or from right and so we have a
bag of words in general to represent the
context now such a word based
representation would actually give us a
interesting way to define the
perspective of measuring similarity
because if you look at the justice
similarity of left one then we'll see
words that share just the words in the
left context and we kind of ignore the
other words that are also in the general
context so that gives us one perspective
to measure the similarity and similarly
if we only use the right one context
will capture the similarity from another
perspective using both left one and
right one of course would allow us to
capture the similarity with even more
stricter criterion
so in general context may contain
adjacent words like eat and my that that
you see here or knowledge is in words -
Saturday a Tuesday or some other words
in the inner context and this
flexibility also allows us to measure
the similarity similarity in somewhat
different ways sometimes this is useful
as we might want to capture similarity
based on general content that were the
gay it was loosely related
paradigmatically relations whereas if
you use only the words admittedly to the
left and to the right of the world
then you likely will capture words that
are very much related by their syntactic
categories or and semantics so the
general idea of discovering parody
grammatical relations is to compute the
similarity of context of two words so
here for example we can measure the
similarity of cat and dog based on the
scenario of their contacts in general we
can combine all kinds of views of the
context and so the similarity function
is in general combination of
similarities on different contacts and
of course we also assign weights to each
different similarities to allow us to
focus more on a particular kind of
context and this would be a natural
application-specific but again here the
main idea for discovering
paradigmatically related words is to
compute the similarity of their context
so let's see how we exactly computed
these similarity functions now to answer
this question it's useful to think of
bag of words replenishing as vectors in
a vector space model now those of you
who have the in familiar with
information retrieval a text retrieval
techniques would realize that vector
space model has been used frequently for
modeling documents and queries for
search but here we also find it
convenient to model the context of a
ward for paralegal Medical Relations
coverage so the idea of this approach is
to view each word in our vocabulary as
defining one by mentioning in a high
dimensional space so we have n words in
total in the vocabulary then we have n
dimensions as illustrated here and on
the bottom you can see a you know
frequency vector representing a context
and here we see when it's occurred five
times in this context eight occur three
times
etc
so this vector can then be placed in
this vector space model so in general we
can represent a pseudo document or
context of cat as one vector t1 and
another word dog might give us a
different context so t2 and then we can
measure the similarity of these two
vectors so by viewing contacts to Inglis
based model we convert the problem of
parity grammatical relations discovery
into the problem of computing the
vectors and their similarity so the two
questions that we have the address is
our first how to compute the each vector
and that is how to compute the X I or Y
I and the other question is how do you
can be the similarity now in general
there are many approaches that can be
used to solve the problem and most of
them are demanded for information
retrieval and they have been shown to
work well for matching a query vector
and a document vector but we can adapt
many of the ideas to compute a
similarity of contacts to the documents
for our purpose here so let's first look
at a one possible approach where we try
to measure the similarity of contacts
based on The X Factor overlap of words
and we call this e owz so the idea here
is to represent context by a word vector
where each word has a weight that's
equal to the probability that a randomly
picked the word from this document
vector is is this world so in other
words X I is defined as the normalized
account of word WI in the context and
this can be interpreted as a probability
that you would actually pick this word
from e1 if you randomly picked
now of course these excise was something
one because they are normalized or
frequencies and this means the vector is
actually probability distribution over
words so the vector D 2 can be also
computed in the same way and this would
give us then two probability
distributions representing two contexts
so that address to the problem how to
compute the vectors and next let's see
how we can define similarity in this
approach well here we simply define the
similarity as a dolt product of two
vectors and this is defined as the sum
of the products of all the corresponding
elements of the two vectors now it's
interesting to see that this similarity
function actually has a nice
interpretation and that is this dot
product in fact that gives us the
probability that to randomly pick the
words from the two contexts are
identical that means if we try to pick a
word from one context and trying to pick
another word from another context we can
then ask the question are they identical
if the two contexts are very similar
then we should expect that we frequently
will see the two words picked from the
two contacts are identical if they are
very different then the chance of seeing
identical words being picked up from the
two connects would be small so this
intuitively makes sense right for
measuring similarity of contexts now you
might want to also take a look at the
exact formulas and see why this can be
interpreted as the probability that to
randomly pick the words are identical
right so if you just stare to the
formula to check what's inside this
son then you will see basically in each
case it gives us the probability that
we'll see an overlap on a particular
world WI and where X I gives us the
problem meaning that we'll pick this
particular world from D Y and Y sub I
gives us the probability of picking this
water from t2 and when we pick the same
word from the two contents and we have a
identical take so that's one possible
approach uwc expected overlap of words
in context now as always we would like
to assess whether this approach it would
work well now of course ultimately we
have to test that approach it with real
data and see if it gives us really
semantically related words I really give
us a parody grammatical relations but
analytically we can also analyze this
formula a little bit so now first as I
said it does make sense right because
this formula will give a higher score if
there is more overlap between the two
continents so that's exactly what we
want but if you analyze the formula more
carefully then you also see there might
be some potential problems and
specifically there are two potential
problems first it might favor matching
one frequently term very well over
matching more distinct terms and that is
because in the dot product if one
element has a high value and this
element is shared by both contacts and
it contributes a lot to the overall sum
and it might indeed make the score
higher than in another case where the
two vectors after have a lot of overlap
in different terms but each term has a
relatively low frequency so this may not
be desirable of course this might be
desirable in some other cases but in our
case we should intuitively prefer a case
where we match more different the terms
in the context so that we have more
confidence ease
the two words indeed occur in similar
context if you only rely on one term and
that's a little bit questionable
it may not be robust now the second
problem is that it treats every word
equally right so if you match on a word
and I guess the and match it would be
the same as matching on the word like
eat but intuitively we know match the
isn't really surprising because the
occurs everywhere so matching the is not
as such a strong evidence as matching
awarded eats which doesn't occur
frequently so this is another problem of
this approach in the next lecture we're
going to talk about how to address these
problems